# CS50P Project

Video Demo: https://youtu.be/2aRRKMfk-FQ

Description: I decided to work on this project after repeatedly creating and editing receipts using Microsoft Publisher then exporting them to PDF format. The process was lengthy, tedious, and lead to occasional innacuracies while calculating totals. I, therefore, decided to try and automate the process using Python. The program, 'project.py', has three functions. The 'main', 'file_access', 'fill_pdf', and 'check_exists'. The 'main' function calls the fill_pdf function which in turn calls the 'file_access' function. The 'file_access' function accepts as input the name of a CSV file for data extraction. In this instance, the file is called 'dawa.csv'. This file contains seven records under the headings 'price','description', and 'quantity'. The records are then extracted from the CSV file and stored in a dictionary. The records in the dictionary are then shuffled by key which in this instance is the 'description'. The sorting of the records was one of the requirements of the client. The dictionary with shuffled records is then passed to the 'fill_pdf' function. In addition to the dictionary, the date to be used in the receipt is also passed to the function when called by 'main'. The 'fill_pdf' function first ensures the date is in the correct format (DD-MM-YYYY). The value of the month is then used in creation of the eventual filename. All the data in the dictionary is then appended to a 'fields' list. The list is then passed to the 'fdf_forge' function of the 'fdfgen' library which creates a data file 'data.fdf'. Pdftk is then used to merge the two files, the 'PDF form' and the 'data.dfd'. After this operation, the pdf is no longer editable and is saved under a new name containing the month contained in the date field. After all this is done, the 'check_exists' function confirms that the new file was created and has the correct file name. The project have multiple applications through slight code modifications and the creation of a different PDF form. For example, in a school, it could be used to create report cards for students by entering their names and grades in various subjects in a CSV file then creating the accompanying PDF form.
